Hi,

It is my pleasure to announce the new release for FoCaLiZe (the
0.9.0 version).

A certain number of bugs found in the focalizec compiler have been fixed and
Zenon also had several issues fixed. Final let-definitions are now integrated.
The computation of dependencies has been deeply rewritten to compute them
*once* for all the possible backends (OCaml, Coq). Generated code is slightly
lighter and naming schemes and code generation schemes have been standardized
between OCaml and Coq.
A complete description of changes / new features can in found in the CHANGES
file of the distribution.

The 0.9.0 release is available from focalize.inria.fr at
http://focalize.inria.fr/download/focalize-0.9.0.tgz

Uncompress, extract, then read the INSTALL file in the newly created
directory focalize.0.9.0 and follow the simple instructions written there.


A public GIT repository is also available, allowing to fetch the latest
development state of FoCaLiZe. However, its content is not bullet-proof and
may be unstable at some times. It reflects the real-time state of FoCaLiZe
and may bring fixes and features not available in previous releases and that
will be part of the next release.
To clone the current FoCaLiZe GIT repository, invoke:
   git clone http://focalize.inria.fr/focalize.git
This will create a focalize repository in your current directory. Once cloned,
it is possible to fetch updates with the usual GIT commands (essentially git
pull origin master). Note that this access being public, it doesn't allow
pushing (i.e. submitting) modifications done in the sources tree.


To join people and discussions write to focalize-users@inria.fr.
Implementors also listen to suggestions (and compliments if some ^_^) at the
mail address: focalize-devel@inria.fr.

Enjoy.

For the entire FoCaLiZe implementation group,

François Pessaux.

October 2014

What is it FoCaLiZe ?
---------------------

FoCaLiZe is an integrated development environment to write high integrity
programs and systems. It provides a purely functional language to formally
express specifications, describe the design and code the algorithms.
Within the functional language, FoCaLiZe provides a logical framework to
express the properties of the code. A simple declarative language provides
the natural expression of proofs of properties them from within the program
source code.

The FoCaLiZe compiler extracts statements and proof scripts from the source
file, to pass them to the Zenon proof generator to produce Coq proof terms
that are then formally verified.

The FoCaLiZe compiler also generates the code corresponding to the
program as an Objective Caml source file. This way, programs developed in
FoCaLiZe can be efficiently compiled to native code on a large variety of
architectures.

Last but not least, FoCaLiZe automatically generates the documentation
corresponding to the development, a requirement for high evaluation
assurance.

The FoCaLiZe system provides means for the developers to formally express
their specifications and to go step by step (in an incremental approach) to
design and implementation, while proving that their implementation
meets its specification or design requirements. The FoCaLiZe language offers
high level mechanisms such as inheritance, late binding, redefinition,
parametrization, etc. Confidence in proofs submitted by developers or
automatically generated ultimately relies on Coq formal proof verification.

FoCaLiZe is a son of the previous Focal system. However, it is a completely
new implementation with vastly revised syntax and semantics, featuring a
rock-solid infrastructure and greatly improved capabilities.
